*sluice.txt* Sluice: plugins for the gutter. *sluice*

CONTENTS ~

                                                   *sluice-contents*
===========================================================================

1. About                                           |sluice-about|

2. Quick Start                                     |sluice-install|

3. Options                                         |sluice-options|
  3.1 updatetime                                   |sluice-updatetime|
  3.2 background                                   |sluice_default_bg|
  3.3 enabled                                      |sluice_enabled|
  3.4 enabled on open                              |sluice_default_enabled|
  3.5 default mode                                 |sluice_default_macromode|
  3.6 graphics enabled                             |sluice_graphics_enabled|
  3.7 convert program location                     |sluice_convert_command|
  3.8 pixel density                                |sluice_pixel_density|

4. Commands                                        |sluice-commands|
  4.1 SluiceToggle                                 |SluiceToggle|
  4.2 SluiceEnable                                 |SluiceEnable|
  4.3 SluiceDisable                                |SluiceDisable|
  4.4 SluiceMacroToggle                            |SluiceMacroToggle|
  4.5 SluiceMacroOff                               |SluiceMacroOff|
  4.6 SluiceMacroOn                                |SluiceMacroOn|
  4.7 SluiceTogglePlugin                           |SluiceTogglePlugin|
  4.8 SluiceEnablePlugin                           |SluiceEnablePlugin|
  4.9 SluiceDisablePlugin                          |SluiceDisablePlugin|

5. Plugins                                         |sluice-plugins|
  5.1 Builtin Data Sources
    5.1.1 Window                                   |sluice-window-plugin|
    5.1.2 Search                                   |sluice-search-plugin|
    5.1.3 Under Cursor                             |sluice-undercursor-plugin|
  5.2 Builtin Renderers
    5.2.1 Slash                                    |sluice-slash-plugin|
    5.2.1 Background                               |sluice-background-plugin|
  5.3 New Plugins
    5.3.1 Data Sources                             |sluice-data-sources|
    5.3.2 Renderers                                |sluice-renderers|

===========================================================================

ABOUT                                              *sluice-about*

The sluice plugin uses vim's '+signs' gutter to provide additional context
while editing in Vim. It provides two modes of operation:

 * __micro__: The signs gutter will show information relevant to the current
  line directly to its right.

 * __macro__: The gutter is condensed to act like a scroll bar, where the
   overall context of the files are 'shrunk' to fit within the current visible
   signs. The top sign on the screen is the top of the file, the middle sign
   on the screen is the middle of the file, and the bottom sign on the screen
   is the bottom of the file.

This plugin is extensible (see sluice-plugins). Currently sluice is bundled
with three plugins:

 * search: show all matches to the @/ register
 * undercursor: show all matches in the file for the word currently under the
   cursor
 * git: show all additions and subtractions in the file if the file is in a
   repository.

===========================================================================

QUICKSTART                                         *sluice-install*

To support graphical icons in the GUI in the gutter you must have ImageMagick
installed on your system. On OSX you can do this easily with homebrew:

brew install imagemagick

TODO if we want to support text in the graphics we'll need to ensure that
ghostscript is installed (at least on OSX):

brew install ghostscript

===========================================================================
OPTIONS                                             *sluice-options*

There are several global options that can be used to change the functionality
of this plugin.

                                                    *sluice-updatetime*

The updatetime setting handles all of the slow/fastness of responsiveness of
the entire plugin. By default the value is set to 200 (1/5 of a second):

    set updatetime=200

                                                    *sluice_default_bg*

The background color of the gutter.

    let g:sluice_default_bg = 'eeeeee'

                                                    *sluice_enabled*

The global variable that enables or disables this plugin. By default it is on,
but you can turn it off by setting it to 0.

    let g:sluice_enabled=1

                                                    *sluice_default_enabled*

Global variable to enable/disable sluice by default when opening files. The
default option is for this plugin to be disabled when you first open a file.
If you would like the gutter to be on when a file is opened, then change this
setting.

    let g:sluice_default_enabled=0

                                                    *sluice_default_macromode*

Global variable for default macro/non-macro mode.

    let g:sluice_default_macromode=0

                                                    *sluice_graphics_enabled*

Global to enable graphical icons:

    let g:sluice_graphics_enabled=1

                                                    *sluice_convert_command*

ImageMagick 'convert' command location.

    let g:sluice_convert_command='convert'

                                                    *sluice_pixel_density*

When using the GUI, the number of pixels that are put into each icon. When the
number is low the icon looks very pixel-ie, but the overall number of icons
generated is smaller. When the number is high (ie, 20), many more icons are
typically generated (slower overall performance, for prettier icons).

    let g:sluice_pixel_density=12

===========================================================================
COMMANDS                                            *sluice-commands*

                                                    *SluiceToggle*

Toggles the Sluice gutter on or off in the current buffer depending on its
current setting. This is a great function for mapping to a hotkey:

    nnoremap <F4> :SluiceToggle<CR>

                                                    *SluiceEnable*

Enable the status of Sluice in the current buffer.

                                                    *SluiceDisable*

Disable the status of Sluice in the current buffer.

                                                    *SluiceMacroToggle*

Toggle the macro/micro mode gutter.

                                                    *SluiceMacroOff*

Turn on the MACRO mode gutter.

                                                    *SluiceMacroOn*

Turn on the MICRO mode gutter.

                                                    *SluiceTogglePlugin*

Toggle a specific plugin. For instance to toggle 'undercursor':

    SluiceTogglePlugin undercursor

                                                    *SluiceEnablePlugin*

Enable a specific plugin. For instance to enable 'undercursor':

    SluiceEnablePlugin undercursor

                                                    *SluiceDisablePlugin*

Disable a specific plugin. For instance to disable 'undercursor':

    SluiceDisablePlugin undercursor
===========================================================================

Plugins                                            *sluice-plugins*

Builtin Data Sources

Window                                   *sluice-window-plugin*

The window plugin simply returns a list of all row numbers that are currently
visible on screen. The row that the cursor is also noted. Intended for use
with the |sluice-background-plugin|.

Search                                   *sluice-search-plugin*

The search plugin returns all lines that contain a match for the last search
(in the @/ register). By default it is used with the |sluice-search-plugin|.

Under Cursor                             *sluice-undercursor-plugin*

The undercursor plugin returns all lines that contain a match for the word
under the location of the cursor (taking into account the |isk| setting). By
default it is used with the |sluice-search-plugin|.

Git                                      *sluice-git-plugin*

The git plugin returns all lines that contain additions or subtractions.

===========================================================================

Builtin Renderers                        *sluice-renderers*

Slash                                    *sluice-slash-plugin*

Renders a character and an icon that is a row.

TODO define the options that the slash renderer understands.

Background                               *sluice-background-plugin*

The background plugin just changes the background color (making it slightly
darker) of the gutter w/o changing the content of the gutter. 

===========================================================================

*Writing* *Plugins*                          *sluice-writing-plugins*

Sluice is built to support expansion. There are two routes to plugin expansion:
    * data sources : A data source creates a list of lines (say all lines that
      match a specific pattern). See sluice-plugins for examples of current
      ones.
    * renderers    : A renderer is given a set of matches generated by a data
      source and renders it on the gutter. The renderer must provide both a
      text and graphic rendering. See sluice-renderers.

Either form of plugin must use the |autoload| file layout.

Data Sources                                       *sluice-data-functions*

Data sources must provide four functions.

function path#to#plugin#enabled(options)

Allow the plugin to control when it is enabled. Should return 0/1.

function path#to#plugin#init(options)

The init function allows the plugin to configure itself. The options parameter
is the dictionary of values passed into the datasource when the
sluice#renderer#add() function is called (configuration options).

function path#to#plugin#deinit()

The deinit function offers the plugin an opportunity to undo any settings when
the plugin is disabled.

function path#to#plugin#data(options)

The data function is responsible for returning a dictionary of data. The
dictionary should contain the following keys:
    'lines': A dictionary of all lines that this plugin considers to be a
             'match'. Each line should contain a dictionary.

Example: The sluice#plugins#search plugin's 'data' function returns all lines
that have a match for the last search by the user (the @/ register). Suppose
that a file contained two matches: one on line 3 and one on line 6. Excluding
the search plugin's internal data it returned a dictionary that looked like:

    {
      'lines': {
        '3': { }, " specific data useful for the 'slash' renderer plugin.
        '6': { }
      },
      " additional keys used by the 'slash' renderer plugin.
    }

Renderers                                          *sluice-renderer-functions*

A renderer must provide two functions:

*Paint*

function path#to#plugin#paint(options,vals)

TODO describe the return values for the paint method.

*Reconcile*

function path#to#plugin#reconcile(options,vals,plugin)

TODO describe the return values for the reconcile method.

 vim:tw=78:ts=8:ft=help:norl:
